---
layout:         post
title:          AMA
description:    In October 2019, I held my first AMA on Reddit about my experience as a SCUBA diving guide
permalink:      ama
date:           2019-10-10 12:00:00
author:         Geo
header-img:     assets/img/posts/header-img/GOPR0135
header-format:  JPG
img-caption:    "Photo by me :)"

categories:
  - Scuba
  - Reddit
---

### Back in October 2019, I decided to hold my first AMA *(**A**sk **M**e **A**nything)* on [r/IAmA](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA) and [r/scuba](https://www.reddit.com/r/scuba), as I felt the work experience as a 19-years-old SCUBA diving guide I just came from could be quite unique and curious.

What I found generally was a quite widespread -- yet totally unblamable -- feeling of suspiciousness regarding my qualifications based on my experience: from a general sense of distrust towards a diving guide of my age and experience, to the "titular" a user in a particularly grumpy mood commented about my patent.

A pretty significant share of the suspicion I witnessed was also due to the naming of the titles: while the *DiveMaster* patent is indeed the highest non-instructor patent in the PADI roadmap, its name seemed to convey a much more prestigious meaning, strictly tied to having a truly extreme mastery of the diving technique.

While I value my diving experience by its relationship with my young age too, I do recognise that it's very limited in an absolute sense, and find both concerns to be perfectly valid -- I thoroughly addressed all these concepts in my comments on the original post:

<blockquote class="reddit-card"><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/scuba/comments/dg243y/iama_19yearsold_divemaster_whos_just_worked_for_a/">IAmA 19-years-old DiveMaster who's just worked for a month in a Diving Centre: AMA!</a>
<p>Hello! My name is Giorgio Ciacchella, I'm Italian and as the title says, I've just worked for 5 weeks in a Diving Centre in Corsica, France thanks to the Level Three CEDIP patent I passed last summer, which is roughly equivalent to the perhaps more popular PADI DiveMaster.
</p><p>
My father has always been extremely fond of SCUBA diving, having started at just age 20 with his father. I simply couldn't help but pick up the passion unconsciously: at merely 3 years of age, upon being stumbled by a wave and coming out of it unharmed I said, relieved: "Luckily I'm a SCUBA diver".
</p><p>
I myself have started actual SCUBA diving when I was just 8, with one of those trial dives in a swimming pool, and despite having cancelled the first dive for feeling uneasy I tried again and immediately fell in love with it. Over the next summer I continued practising diving in the sea with my experienced father as a buddy and a guide, and at age 10 I got my first (Junior) Open Water Diver patent.
</p><p>
Since then, I've basically undergone one new course each summer along with relevant practise on actual sea dives, up to this summer, when we managed to organise this month-long work period in this Diving Centre we know the owner of.</p></blockquote>
<script async src="//embed.redditmedia.com/widgets/platform.js" charset="UTF-8"></script>

If you still have any questions, comment the Reddit post or contact me through the icons at the bottom of the page: I'll be glad to address any doubt or curiosity!